# Taskday_Assignment
Task day : Using Linux SSH, managing users, packages, basic commands, systemd, disk/filesystem)  1 How do you remote login to a machine ? Create a user testuser with some password and try to ssh using that user? https://medium.com/@pierangelo1982/setting-ssh-connection-to-ubuntu-on-virtualbox-af243f737b8b Try enabling passwordless ssh using certs? Create a file with “root” user and verify the permissions of the file. Change the ownership of the file to the newly created testuser. Now delete the test user. ======================================================================== 2 Install any package of your choice lets (ex mariadb / nginx / elasticsearch ) uninstall the same. Verify if some config files of the same are present if yes ? then how will you remove them (using package manager only)? ======================================================================== 3 Check how much free disk is available and also ensure that the command prints the files system of the mount points ? Check how much disk is used by a particular directory ? List all the files in a directory along with the hidden files? How do you check the ram in the system ? How to list all the open ports on the server ? Create a file and ensure that even root cannot edit it.  ======================================================================== 4 Read up about systemd. How to start, stop and reload a service in systemd? Create one service in systemd then try to manage it via systemctl commands ======================================================================== 5 Try attaching a disk to the VM ? Format (with any file system of ur choice) and mount the disk on /testmount.? Reboot the machine and ensure that the mount is persisted across reboots.? Unmount the mountpoint and play around with Logical Volume Manager? Create PV, VG and LV.  ======================================================================= 6 Write a bash script to print the numbers from 1 to 100, but print PHONE if the number is divisible by 3 and print PE if the number is divisible by 5. Write a bash script to find and replace a string in a file.X Write a bash script to check if a file exists or not, if it does not exist then create the file. ( this file creation must happen via function). Otherwise print that file exists. Similarly create a logic if a directory exists or not. Write a bash script to demonstrate the case statement.
